[WHOOSH]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
In this edition, Kaedrich
Olsen is with us.
Author, speaker, and
teacher who specializes
in alternative paths
of spiritual growth.
Kaedrich, welcome
to the program.
>>KAEDRICH OLSEN:
Thank you, George.
I'm really excited to be here.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in all of this?
>>OLSEN: I grew up with it.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>OLSEN: I lived in a house
that was completely haunted.
You would set something down,
turn around, it would be gone.
You would be in
the bathroom, you'd
hear footsteps going up
and down the hallway.
You'd open the door,
nobody's there.
You could hear a toilet
flush in the basement
when you're upstairs.
>>NOORY: Nobody there.
>>OLSEN: Nobody there.
And so to help deal
with this, my parents
took us to a
spiritualist church,
which is your typical
Protestant church.
You stand up, sit
down, stand up, sing.
>>NOORY: Did they witness these
things going on at the house,
too?
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
It was just, it was continuous.
And so when we're at the church,
they end all of their services
with trance mediumship.
We call it trance
channeling today.
And then every Saturday
night was a seance.
So I learned how to work with
spirits from elementary school
throughout my entire life.
>>NOORY: Well, it
sounds like your parents
helped encourage you.
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
I had great parents.
They let me explore
different paths
of spirituality and
different growths.
They weren't the
restrictive ones that
said you have to be this way.
You have to learn this.
They're like, OK.
Go ahead and explore and learn.
>>NOORY: So you've
had this connection
with the spirit world
since you were a youngster.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
It's a huge part of my life.
>>NOORY: And it has gotten
bigger and bigger and bigger
for you.
Hasn't it?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
In fact, one of the things that
astounded me over the years
is because it was such a
normal natural part of my life
that as I started
exploring other routes
of spirituality
teaching, I started
realizing other
people didn't have
this as a natural normal
part of their life.
I would look around
and like, well,
aren't you in communication
with these higher
beings that can guide you?
>>NOORY: No.
>>OLSEN: And people
would say, well,
I'm having these
problems in the house.
And I'm like, oh, yeah.
Just do this and that.
They're like what?
How do you--
And I'm like, huh?
You aren't getting this?
And it took me a while
to finally realize
that my upbringing
wasn't natural and normal
for everybody else.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
You thought this was
routine for everybody.
Right?
>>OLSEN: I honestly did.
And so I had people
over the years
goad me into teaching
classes on seances.
On working with people
to help with protection
and clearing the house.
And working with ghost
hunters to help prepare them.
So when they go investigating
locations where there's
some bad juju going on that
they can protect themselves
and keep themselves safe.
And I'm like, I didn't realize
there was a need for this
out there.
And so I've been coming out
more and more with what I know
and what I've learned over
the years to help people.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich,
what is, what you are,
a paranormal
protection specialist?
>>OLSEN: This is
where I've learned
that a lot of understanding
of the paranormal
has gotten out of hand.
The TV shows, the
movie shows, all
of these things and the media--
>>NOORY: Well, it's crazy.
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
They're presenting
that the paranormal
is a scary, frightening,
terrible thing.
And it's reinforced with certain
religious groups out there.
And that is not my
experience whatsoever.
And so I'm helping
people who are
generating some of
these negativity things
or encountering some of
the negative problems
in their life to deal with
it in a practical way.
So that we can
peacefully coexist
with the paranormal
reality around us.
>>NOORY: You do a lot of
work in the area of seances.
Don't you?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: And when you
do that, what rituals
do you perform during a seance
to keep the bad entities away?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
What's important to remember
with the paranormal and working
with paranormal, no
matter the situation,
is a little maxim
that similarities
attract and perpetuate.
Whatever your mindset
is going into working
with the paranormal is what
you're going to bring to you.
So if you see a horror movie
that really portrays something
scary and then you
go to do a seance,
you're going to be
scared and frightened.
Or people will get a
Ouija board for what
they've seen on the
movie and they'll
sit down with a Ouija board.
And they're scared and then
they will attract something that
is feeding off of that fear.
That is going to be a
negative experience for them
and they're like, see.
I told you this was a bad thing.
We need to stop doing that.
So what I do is I set
the space around us.
I create a sacred space.
I put wards on all of the walls.
I clear the energy in the room.
And I raise the energy to
a better state of being.
And then I have people
go into a meditation
where they connect with
their own sense of awareness
of what is sacred.
And they bring
that sacred energy
through their body, their
being when they're there.
So that they are in a
sacred place internally
and externally.
So that the work that
we're doing in a seance
connects them with
higher level beings
that have their best
interest in mind.
>>NOORY: One of our Gaia crews
followed you to your studio
where you perform
one of these rituals.
>>OLSEN: When it comes
to doing a seance,
one of the most important rules
that I keep in mind that I
teach everybody is
that similarities
attract and perpetuate.
You'll hear me say
this quite often.
And what this means is whatever
your mindset is, whatever
your frame of being is, is the
type of entities and spirits
that you will attract
to you in seance.
To establish the
proper mindset, we
do a ritual for setting
sacred space around us.
To ensure that the
workings of seance
is peaceful and
happy for everybody.
By my will, I seal this wall.
And by my will,
I seal this wall.
By my will, I seal the ceiling.
And by my will,
I seal the floor.
And it's my will that any
entity, being, thought
form, resident
pattern, or vibration,
or frequency that is not a
part of the working on this day
do depart and clear this space.
And by my will, I
seal this portal.
Knowing that we are now
in sacred, safe space.
>>NOORY: Why do
you seal each wall?
>>OLSEN: It creates a barrier.
Let's say, a
semi-permeable barrier
where only things of
a higher vibration
can transit through
that barrier.
So if it is a lower level
entity, a negative entity,
or something that
has malicious intent,
it cannot traverse
through the wall.
But a higher level
being or a being
that you do want to
connect with, say, a loved
one or an ancestor
or spirit guide,
can come through that wall.
>>NOORY: And when you say by
my will, what does that do?
>>OLSEN: Will is that power
that we have within us
as a sacred force.
It is the goal of
your higher being
to exist in this world,
its purpose here.
And you're using that
as a projective force
to ensure that your intention
is manifested in the way
that you want it to be.
>>NOORY: Are your rituals
the same all over the place?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
There may be slight variations
depending on the audience
and the situation.
But for the most
part, it is the same.
We seal each of the walls.
We seal the ceiling, the floor.
And then we clear
the space in between.
>>NOORY: If there's an error in
sealing the wall, what happens?
What could happen?
>>OLSEN: Never had that problem.
Even if I stumble my
words or if I will do it
in old Norse versus
English and then maybe I'll
do another wall in
English or old Norse,
all that those words are, are
a projection of my intention.
They just are a way to
convey the energy of what
I'm working with.
So as long as my
mindset is there,
as long as I'm projecting
there, there's no problem.
And one of the
workings that I do
that people don't
see behind the scenes
is I've stretched my awareness
to the space around me.
And I'm clearing
the space around me.
Even though my words and my body
are performing certain actions,
my spirit, my soul are
performing something auxiliary
to all of that, that is
the real basis of the work.
And so I could make up
any word that I wanted,
do any little action that I want
as long as the working still
does what I need it to do.
>>NOORY: Well, how do you
know that it's working?
>>OLSEN: I can feel
the shift in the room.
One of the things
that you'll notice
when I do seance or
ritual-type thing
is that the energy flows
through like air flow.
Like you maybe have a fan going
or the air conditioner going,
you can feel the air flow.
But when I set the walls
and I set the wards
and I clear the space, it almost
feels a little bit stuffy,
a little bit stagnant,
because the energy just
gets held into that
room, and then it raises.
And then you could feel
that the entire time.
Then when I let the wards
go and I drop the wards,
you can feel that
air flowing again,
just like it's a dam released
and that water is flowing out.
>>NOORY: Are there are
other esoteric practices
that you perform?
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
I work a lot with
the Norse tradition.
So runes are a huge part of
what I do and I teach people
that you have runes inside you.
The way that you connect with
runes, such as the rune Fehu,
is all about values.
So if you connect with
what your value is,
for Fehu, that becomes reflected
in the world around you.
And I will bring those
runes into ritual,
such as the rune Algiz,
is a protective rune that
connects you to the sacred
powers and the upper world.
And so if I were to
conjure Algiz and Galdr,
the rune Algiz on a
wall, that sets the room
as sacred space with that rune.
>>NOORY: You lead
seance training.
What exactly do
you teach people?
>>OLSEN: Ah, we go
through various stages
throughout the process.
Ultimately, it is about
shifting your mindset
to be in tune to a
higher state of being,
to understand how fear could
come into the role of seance
and mess things up.
So if you're feeling that
fear, how to shift out
of that fear state.
And then, ultimately, it's
about building your intuition.
We'll start off with
a pendulum to learn
how to do yes or no answers.
>>NOORY: You have a pendulum.
Describe what that is.
>>OLSEN: A pendulum.
I can even show you here.
I've got my pendulum that I use.
It is a weight at the end
of a string or a chain
that works with the micro
muscular movements of your hand
that connect to your
subconscious mind.
>>NOORY: I've used that before.
>>OLSEN: And that
subconscious mind
is connected to
your intuition and
to other spiritual workings.
And then you can get it to
say yes or no questions, which
can become a very
valuable tool if you
want to connect with spirits.
>>NOORY: Have you ever tried
to have somebody control what
you're holding with their mind?
>>OLSEN: I haven't
done that, yet.
>>NOORY: Well,
let's try something.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
Let's do it.
>>NOORY: Yes is up and down.
No is across.
>>OLSEN: OK.
>>NOORY: When you're
confused, it's middle,
so mentally think stop.
Stop.
Now think yes.
Up and down.
Now think no.
Back and forth.
Are you happy with
what you've been
practicing all these years?
So it says yes.
>>OLSEN: It says yes.
>>NOORY: It's like a
lie detector, isn't it?
>>OLSEN: It can be.
Absolutely.
One of the early ways I
was taught how to use this.
If you were to put this into
a glass, clear your mind
and focus on what time it is, it
could tap out the closest hour
to what you're in right now.
>>NOORY: I was at a
party one day, Kaedrich,
and I pulled out a pendulum,
and I wrote on a piece of paper,
yes, up, up, no, left, right.
And I had people
come in to do it.
It was like a party thing.
Right?
And this one guy's there
doing it and I'm telling him--
and his wife's there--
and I don't know why I
said this, but you know,
he's tuned in, he's
doing yes, yes, no, no--
and I said, do you ever
have an affair on your wife?
And it starts going yes, yes.
He dropped the pendulum
and walked out of the room.
>>OLSEN: Oh, boy.
>>NOORY: And she walked out
with him, not too happy.
>>OLSEN: Oh, I bet.
Yeah, we got to be careful
sometimes when doing that work.
>>NOORY: These things
don't lie, do they?
>>OLSEN: They tend not to.
It tends to be what our
micro muscular movements are
doing in our hand and what our
subconscious wants to express.
So interestingly enough,
the fact that he said yes
meant that some
part of his own mind
really wanted to
reveal that secret.
Otherwise, it wouldn't have
come through in that way,
so you actually, in a weird
way, may have helped him out.
>>NOORY: Now, that could be.
Now, when you do this, are
you tying into the paranormal
at all?
>>OLSEN: The entire time.
>>NOORY: Is there anything
unusual about that?
>>OLSEN: In fact,
the entire time.
One of my subversive
goals in all of this
is, I want people to realize
that the paranormal is normal
and that the supernatural
is perfectly natural.
And so whenever I'm using a
pendulum or a black mirror,
a Ouija board, or
any of these tools,
or even helping people develop
their intuitive connection,
it's all paranormal for us.
>>NOORY: We've got video of you
demonstrating, at your studio,
some of this.
>>OLSEN: Excellent.
>> So we're here in my
seance room with Paige,
and we're going to demonstrate
a couple of kinetic tools that
are very popular
for use in seance.
So a pendulum is a
very simple tool.
It's just a weight at the
end of a string or a chain,
in this case, and
what you want to do
is just kind of hold
it a bit and pinch
the chain in your
forefinger and your thumb,
and then start to let
it have a good swing.
And so, if you start it
with a neutral, say, yes.
Show me what a yes response is.
And then you notice that
it moves differently.
For me, it's counterclockwise.
Then we go back to neutral.
And then say, no.
For me, a no is clockwise.
And then they can start working
with spirits in the room.
Start by asking the
spirits questions.
Ask it some silly
questions, just
so that you get used
to being silly with it.
Don't take this too
seriously, by the way.
So your favorite color is blue.
I got a no.
What did you get?
>> I got a yes.
>> Your favorite color is green.
>> I got a no.
>> So sent it back to neutral.
But then you can really
start advancing it,
like, you were
once a human being.
I got yes.
>> I got yes.
>> Great.
Neutral.
And I asked that
question because, a lot
of times, spirits come through,
never had a physical body.
Then you could start
saying, you are a man.
I got a yes.
>> I got a yes.
>> Excellent.
And then it went
back to neutral.
You died in an accident.
I got a no.
>> I got a yes.
>> And then scan your body.
Like, for me, I
want to scan my body
to see if I get a feeling
like, you had a heart problem.
I'm getting a yes on that one.
>> I got a yes.
>> OK.
Now is when the intuition
starts kicking in.
It wasn't necessarily
an accident,
but it was a mistake
that was made.
Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Paige and I are communicating
with the same person.
>> Yes.
>> Yup.
So this is why it's also
good to do a pendulum.
Sometimes with
multiple people, is
because when I said accident,
I got yes, Paige got a no.
Turns out, it was a mistake,
a mistake made probably
by the doctors.
Some might interpret
that as an accident.
Some might not say
it was an accident.
No matter how many years
I've been doing this,
I still use a pendulum
from time to time.
I still need this check in.
And sometimes, it helps me
to recalibrate my own senses
and my own intuitive abilities.
So thank you, Paige.
>> Thank you.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich, Paige
works on "Beyond Belief."
>>OLSEN: Indeed.
>>NOORY: Of course.
And she seemed tuned in.
I mean, she was
really swinging that.
Is that done subconsciously?
>>OLSEN: Entirely.
That's absolutely how it works.
And I agree, she's
definitely a natural with it.
She's got this capability,
and that energy
that she was picking
up was amazing.
>>NOORY: When you
can get somebody
to swing that like that.
Now, people have used
this by looking at a map--
dowsers, for example--
will talk about where's
the water, where's the oil?
And this thing will
go and find them.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, it's--
>>NOORY: Incredible.
>>OLSEN: It really is.
It goes back to the subconscious
tapping into the intuition,
tapping into the collective
unconscious, the Earth
energy of the field, and then
how it all just gets translated
to that tiny micro
muscular movement,
so that no matter how much you
try to hold your hand still,
the subconscious is going to
move it just ever so slightly.
>>NOORY: What gives the
subconscious the knowledge
to be right about that?
>>OLSEN: I believe it's the
collective unconscious that
goes into our intuitive
connection that then translates
to the subconscious
and then can come
through our imagination,
which is great,
or it comes through
the subconscious
movements of our hand.
We could use a hand, we
can use dowsing rods.
The muscle test that people
will do, push down your arm
or try to break the chain
with your fingertips,
all of those things
are the subconscious
tapping into the
intuition, tapping
into the collective
unconscious, or connecting
with other beings.
>>NOORY: When you and she
were doing this separately,
but it seemed collectively, were
you tapping into some source
together?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
We were working
with the same being.
I'm still not sure what
happened with the blue
and the green color, that
difference on the color,
but definitely, when the
intuition kicked in--
and that's the key
part of the pendulum--
is yes, you'll learn how to
do the yes or no questions,
but then you'll tap into, like,
what we were doing, scanning
the body, feeling where in the
body do I feel the problem was,
like, oh, there
was a heart issue.
And then what did we
really mean by accident?
Was it an accident?
Oh, it was a mistake.
Because suddenly
intuition kicks in.
You get a sense of it.
You get a feel of it.
You can see what's going on.
And then you can
validate that intuition,
the intuitive hit
coming in, by going,
was that really what we were
picking up on or was it not?
And then it'll tell
you, yep, your intuition
is right on or no, ask
in a different way.
>>NOORY: Can you do
children with the pendulum?
Can they play with that?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
I learned to use the
pendulum as a kid.
>>NOORY: And they're sensitive?
>>OLSEN: Oh, definitely.
Kids are more sensitive to the
paranormal than we adults are.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
That's amazing.
You've done some work in
the Ouija board area, too,
haven't you?
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
I think that's the next logical
step after the pendulum.
Once you develop your intuition
for yes or no questions
and how to tap in, then you
can move to the Ouija board
so that you can
start learning how
to spell out more
complex answers,
get more complex worded answers.
>>NOORY: I've always thought
the Ouija boards were for evil.
>>OLSEN: That's a
common thing going on,
and I do see that
around and about,
and I will say that that's
perpetuated through the TV
shows and the movies.
I mean, the TV shows
are great and the movies
are a lot of fun,
and they present
a really believable account
on all of these programs.
And it's understandable.
That's their job to make it
look believable and realistic.
But ultimately, the Ouija
board is just a piece
of wood with some paint on it.
It's just a tool.
And then however
you use that tool.
>>NOORY: You would think.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: If you believe
an evil spirit is
going to come through, will it?
>>OLSEN: Similarities
attract and perpetuate.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>OLSEN: If you believe
that the Ouija board is
a portal to demons
and evil entities,
and you're sitting there
with it and you're using it
with that intention,
100% of the time,
that's what you're
going to draw to you.
>>NOORY: Well, I'm glad you
didn't bring one in here.
I don't like Ouija
boards, Kaedrich, at all.
>>OLSEN: They're a little
bit slow and clunky for me.
They're not my
preferred tool, but I
will use it as a
tool to train people,
so that they can do seance.
And I have seen some people
do some amazing things
with the Ouija board, where
that planchette is just
flying around, giving words
like crazy, so much so
that somebody that is not
participating with the Ouija
has to call out or
write down the letters
because it's moving so fast.
And then the answers
that have been given
has just been amazing.
>>NOORY: Well, we've got
video of you playing around
with a Ouija board.
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
One of the things that
we're going to work with now
is the Ouija.
And the Ouija board has a lot of
negative stereotypes associated
with it.
People think that using
Ouija opens a doorway
to the dark side, but
I want to assure you
that a Ouija board is nothing
more than a piece of wood
with some designs on it.
If we go into a situation
with fear or worry or concern
that we're going to be
working with negative entities
or demonic beings or that
sort of thing, then that worry
is going to perpetuate
that connection.
But since we're in
sacred space, since we're
in a reality where
we are connected
with higher-level
beings, they're
not going to be a
problem with this.
In my decades of working
with the paranormal,
I've only encountered
problems twice.
>> Wow.
>>OLSEN: And that's it.
Because similarities
attract and perpetuate.
If you're in a
higher state of mind
and a higher state
of being, that's
what you're going to get.
And so with that
awareness, let's
go ahead and put two
fingers on the planchette.
And knowing that
it's us doing it,
we're going to
start spinning it,
just giving it a little
bit of kinetic energy.
Now, both of our minds
are working together
with the minds of
the spirits here,
and with the intermediaries
helping to move the planchette.
It's almost as if their fingers
are on the planchette with us.
Now, let's ask some
yes or no questions.
This room is full of spirits
willing to talk to us.
And the planchette's moving.
Great.
It's a yes.
Let's bring it to
a neutral again.
Are we talking, in specific,
to one spirit right now?
That's a yes.
>> Hmm.
>>OLSEN: And we'll bring
it to neutral again.
Were you once living as
a human being on Earth?
OK.
Is that you, Maria, that's
talking to us today, again?
[CHUCKLES]
>> It's Maria.
>>OLSEN: Yes, it's Maria.
Maria is a woman
who, in her life,
did not believe in
the spirit world,
thought this kind of stuff
wasn't the normal thing.
But she came to a
seance here recently
and introduced herself,
fascinated by the fact
that she was on the other side
doing seance from that side,
something that she
didn't believe in
as something that
she didn't think
existed when she was alive.
So Maria, is your
last name Gallegos?
[CHUCKLING]
>>OLSEN: Cool.
Let's go back to neutral.
So this is one of
the things I like
to emphasize about
the Ouija and what
we did is, we used kinetic
tools to make this connection
and to understand the
connection that was going,
but as you probably noticed when
you were using the pendulum,
you were noticing the
yes or no question
before it really
started to move.
>> Mm-hmm.
>>OLSEN: And so that's perfect.
That's exactly how I want people
to learn to use a pendulum is,
as you have it in hand and
that you're working with it,
you're able to pick up
your yes or no responses
before it happens.
You're tapping into
your intuition.
When you've got that and
you move to the Ouija board
and you're able to
get the yes or no
and then you start
spelling out, you'll
notice that you're starting
to get the psychic impression
of what the words already.
You're getting a feeling
already coming through.
And eventually, the Ouija
board is just slow and clunky.
>>NOORY: You seem
to imply, Kaedrich,
that there were two bad
episodes with a Ouija board.
What happened?
>>OLSEN: I wasn't necessarily
with a Ouija board but it was
different encounters--
>>NOORY: Explain.
>>OLSEN: --wasn't really
related to that one.
When I was younger, a
teenager, a group of friends
and I went out into a
field, exploring, just
being dumb little teenagers,
let's say it that way.
>>NOORY: Little kids.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
And I was open, aware,
intuitive because I
had the upbringing of
working with spirits
and spiritual reality, and
all of a sudden, something
started doing a psychic attack
while we were out there.
We all were--
>>NOORY: You could feel it?
>>OLSEN: Yeah, we were overcome
with this sense of fear,
almost like a panic.
I would kick on my
clairvoyant site
to see that there were these
entities standing around us,
following us, projecting
this energy onto us,
and we ran, as
quick as we could,
to get out of that field.
As soon as we crossed over
railroad tracks, I stopped.
I got this intuitive insight
from higher beings saying,
stop, set the boundaries,
call in help, which I did.
I called in help.
I could see the boundary
forming up in front of us.
I could feel our guides--
other protective
entities-- coming in
and setting up a boundary wall.
I could see that these other
entities on the other side
of the tracks were
like, they were held off
for whatever their attack was.
And that taught
me, that day, how
to call in protective
spirits, how
to set boundaries to protect
negative entities from coming
across, and even my friends
at that time were still like,
I don't understand
what this fear was,
what we were afraid of, but
we were running from it.
And I tried to explain to
them and there were still
a little bit leery
with my explanation
because they couldn't
quite see what I was seeing
and experience what
I was experiencing,
but they definitely felt
the effects, beforehand
and afterwards, where
I was like suddenly,
oh, we're not scared anymore.
We don't have that feeling
happening anymore to us.
>>NOORY: Do you
know Karen Dahlman?
>>OLSEN: It's a
very familiar name.
>>NOORY: Loves the Ouija board.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>NOORY: I mean, it's
with her all the time.
All the time, 24/7.
And I believe she
may have been here.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, I think I
remember seeing that show.
She's one of those people
that can use it like really
well and does it really good.
I don't know her,
personally, but I've
seen the show and that was
really good stuff that she
does with it.
>>NOORY: You don't think
bad entities, though,
can come through a Ouija board?
>>OLSEN: They can.
>>NOORY: They can?
>>OLSEN: But I will say it's
not the Ouija board doing it.
>>NOORY: Who's doing
it, the individual?
>>OLSEN: The
individual using it.
We, as human beings--
>>NOORY: Why would anybody want
a bad entity to come through?
>>OLSEN: They may not want to.
And here's one of the fun
things about human beings
is we have our conscious,
everyday mind that we exist
with, our everyday
world, thinking
that this is who we really are.
But meanwhile, we have our
deeper unconscious mind
that is really connected to
the energies and the spirits
around us.
And if we get programmed to
believing that a Ouija board is
evil or that seances are evil
or that the paranormal is evil,
then that is what
we start drawing
to us with an energetic,
subtle language.
We put out that energy out
there and these entities
will pick up on that
language and go, oh,
I recognize that energy.
Let me come into
that one because I
want more of that energy.
Meanwhile, the conscious,
everyday person
is going, what's happening?
I didn't want this to happen.
How is this happening?
But that energetic part is like,
see, I knew this was happening.
>>NOORY: What is
moving the planchette?
>>OLSEN: It is your own muscles.
It is your own arm.
It is your own hand.
>>NOORY: Is it a reflex?
>>OLSEN: Yep.
It is exactly that.
The spirit is coming through.
It is working through
with your body.
You can consciously
say, I'm letting
go of control of my arm, I'm
letting control of this one,
but ultimately, it's
still your muscles.
It's still your brain moving it.
It is just that
connection with the spirit
helping move the
planchette around.
>>NOORY: If somebody
is weak-minded,
Kaedrich, are they more
susceptible to strange things
happening with a Ouija board?
>>OLSEN: I wouldn't say that
it's necessarily weak-minded.
When we talk about similarities
attract and perpetuate,
when something
comes through, let's
say, an attachment or some
sort of a negative entity,
there is an unconscious
agreement going on
in the energetic field.
Like, when a spirit
attaches to somebody,
they have some common
energy that were there.
Could be even fear
energy, right?
Maybe this entity lives off
of fear, it needs fear energy.
It's not evil, it just
needs fear energy,
and this person is
afraid, and this thing
is like, oh, hey, there's
a food source for you.
So it comes in, it taps that
person with that fear energy.
That person now
becomes a battery
and it's generating that.
And that fear energy comes
back out of this person
and this entity is like, going,
oh, there's my glass of water.
There's my big steak that
I've been waiting for.
I'm happy now.
Great.
And then it does its thing,
but it stays attached,
it's a little tendril
to that person.
And then when it
lowers its energy
and it needs another fix, it
pokes that person and then it,
[GASPS], what's this again?
And it gets fed and it's like,
great, this is happening.
>>NOORY: But like you said,
it's a piece of cardboard.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, a Ouija
board is just a tool.
It just depends on the
individual using it.
>>NOORY: How is the
planchette physically made?
Is it just a little
piece of plastic?
>>OLSEN: Yeah, it's
just a piece of plastic.
>>NOORY: With felt on
the bottom or something,
because it's smooth, right?
>>OLSEN: Yeah, felt
or very smooth bottom.
Sometimes they'll have like
ball bearings on the bottom
so they can move around easily.
It's just manufactured
by normal human hands.
>>NOORY: Would you
recommend kids play around
with a Ouija board?
>>OLSEN: You know, it
really, really depends.
When I was growing
up, in my house,
that was no problem
because I was
trained from a very young age.
>>NOORY: It was like a
Monopoly game to you.
Right?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
It was just, it was no problem.
But if children are in a
home where they are not
exposed to the paranormal, and
unfortunately, like we said,
children are really
attuned to the paranormal,
but mom and dad may
have been brought up
to be afraid of the
paranormal, and so
they're telling the
kid, who's talking
to their imaginary friend or
having a paranormal connection,
stop it.
Stop it.
I don't want to hear
you doing this one.
And the kid will
suppress that or they'll
think it's something
scary, and the parents
don't know how to
deal with that energy,
and then accidentally
could generate
some sort of a problem.
>>NOORY: What is a black mirror?
>>OLSEN: A black mirror
is just like it says.
It's really just
a piece of glass
with paint on the back of it.
You can go to any hobby store
and buy a picture frame,
take out the little
piece of paper in there,
and spray it black.
>>NOORY: Well, we've got video
of you with a black mirror
and it doesn't look like just
a piece of plastic to me.
>>OLSEN: [CHUCKLES]
So I'd like to introduce Ruben.
He has some loved ones
who has passed on,
that he'd like to connect with.
And we're going to use the black
mirror as a tool for connecting
with those loved ones.
So now that we're here in this
time and space of here and now,
relaxing and focusing, go ahead
and stare deep into the mirror.
Think of the person you'd
like to connect with.
Think of their name.
Just stare deep into the
mirror, allowing your mind
to go even deeper into a memory
that you had with this person.
Even if it's multiple people,
just thinking about them,
feeling what it was like
to be in their presence.
So we open the mirror even
deeper and invite them here.
As you're thinking and
feeling about this person,
just imagine as if
they're here with us now.
If there's something you've
ever wanted to say to them,
just think it,
loudly in your mind,
as if you were
talking with them.
So I'm getting the impression
of a younger person.
>>Ruben: My brother
passed away at 23.
>> OK.
>>Ruben: And the image
I was remembering
was when he went to Clearlake.
We went jet skiing
and fishing together.
>>OLSEN: Gotcha.
Yeah.
Short hair?
>>Ruben: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: OK.
I almost want to say not
quite blonde but like,
lighter colored brown?
>>Ruben: Mm-hmm.
>>OLSEN: OK, great, great.
We're tuning in.
He doesn't want to
go into the 20s.
He doesn't want to show
me in the age of the 20s.
He wants to show me in his
teens, something about a party?
>>Ruben: [CHUCKLES] Yeah.
I threw a huge disco party.
Yeah, we had many
parties at the house.
>>OLSEN: [LAUGHS]
Oh, that was weird.
He just changed into an
older guy, like, white beard,
white hair.
He knew you as a teacher, as a
mentor in a previous lifetime,
but the bond between
you two was so much
that, between lives,
you had this agreement
to come back as brothers,
even though he didn't really
need to.
He wanted to spend that
extra time with you
because of the connection
you had in a previous time.
And he said he's sorry that
it was so short this time
but that was all he had.
>>Ruben: Why?
Why was it cut so short?
>>OLSEN: Because it was always
meant to be that with him.
He wasn't supposed to really
be here for this extra time,
but he wanted that extra
time to hang out with you.
And so his apology was
that it was so short,
but that was the only
way it could have been.
The reason why he gave
you this other shape
is, he doesn't do
the partying anymore.
He isn't really the crazy
kid that you knew him as.
He was really this
wiser mentor type,
and he wants you to now try
to see him as this older guy
so that he can
actually help give you
some guidance through
some little turbulence
that you're going
through right now.
>>Ruben: OK.
>>OLSEN: He knows about that.
And he's like, I
know what Ruben needs
to do to get through
this one, if he just
needs to listen to me,
because he did it before,
so he's there to help you
get through that right now.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
Ruben's part of our
production staff
and our condolences to him
on the loss of his brother.
>>OLSEN: Indeed.
>>NOORY: But when
you use the mirror
like that, what is it doing?
How does it connect?
>>OLSEN: It's another tool
to help alter our mindset.
One of the ways I train
people to do it, work with it,
is we look into the depths of
the blackness of the mirror.
And you could almost
see the room around you,
reflected in the mirror.
And then you shift,
dimensionally,
to becoming like four
dimensional or five
dimensional, and as you're
working with a mirror
you will see it changing shapes
and sizes, closer and farther,
and eventually, everything
will fade to black.
And it's as if it
becomes a portal
to connect with people that you
really want to connect with.
So I will have people who
want to connect with somebody
in particular, remember a
time that they were together,
a time when they enjoyed
really being with that person,
that they can actually
remember what it feels
like to experience
with that person.
And we have this
neat little thing
that we say in our language.
I was really close to my father.
I was really close
to my brother.
And it implies that there is
this lack of space between us.
Well, that carries over
to the spiritual realms.
When you're feeling that
closeness to a loved one,
there is no distance
between you and that spirit.
And so when you have a portal,
when the black mirror's
working as a portal, you
close that space between
and they come into
the room with you
and then you can share
and communicate together
using the black
mirror like that.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
Do you ever see a face
in a black mirror?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: That's not yours?
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>OLSEN: One of my favorite
experiences with a black mirror
is, I was standing pretty close
to my back against the wall,
staring deep into
the black mirror,
communicating with some spirits,
and then I saw somebody walk
behind me, in the mirror,
in a dimensional place where
there couldn't have been
somebody walking behind me.
>>NOORY: Automatic
writing, of course,
is the ability to write
from the spirit world.
Right?
They're basically almost using
your hand to write things.
We've got some footage of you
teaching Ruben about this.
>>OLSEN: So what
we're going to do now
is some automatic writing.
This is a very simple technique
that I teach a lot of people
to use, and a lot
of people actually
find they have
proficiency for it.
This was something that was used
in the 1800s, early 1900s, as
one of the primary
means of doing seance,
and as you'll find out
soon here, you'll see why.
>>Ruben: OK.
>>OLSEN: So what
I want you to do
is, at the very top of the
page, write your brother's name
as you know it.
And now, write
yourself a question
that you'd like an answer to.
And believe it or not, it
could even be something like,
what was your favorite food?
What's your favorite color?
What was your name in
the previous lifetime?
Something simple and easy.
>>Ruben: [CHUCKLES]
It's not so easy.
>>OLSEN: That's fine.
Now, tap into the
feeling, again,
of being in the presence
of your brother.
Feel what it's like
to be with him.
Open your mind to see if
you can see an image of him
as an older man.
>>Ruben: It's crazy.
Immediately.
Already saw it.
>>OLSEN: Beautiful.
Tap into that feeling.
And now, just start writing.
And I want you to write
nonsense, at first,
like, this is silly,
why am I writing,
I don't know what I'm doing.
But if something
comes out, beware
that you might be aware of
what you're writing beforehand
or you might not be, but just
write nonsense right now.
>>Ruben: OK.
>>OLSEN: Cool.
That's all you have to do.
>>Ruben: I write
the question down,
and then I just start
writing the answers,
reading them afterwards.
>>OLSEN: Yep.
Just free-associate,
write whatever comes out,
just like you did now.
>>Ruben: OK.
So the question that
I had for my brother,
and I was thinking,
immediately, he--
I saw him, like, in
a Greek professor,
kind of like, old-school
robes, like, immediately.
And I said, what kind
of teacher are you?
And instead of him
responding, he actually just
opened up to, like, he
was talking to students,
and he said, the
people's hearts are
to be open in this lifetime.
Where and who are you now?
And I'm like, OK.
And it just kind of like, it
just kind of like stopped,
cut right there, and [SIGH]
and it's pretty awesome
because my brother, later
on in life, when he died--
he passed away of cancer--
I could remember him
being in deep meditation.
And this is something that he
would say, in so many words.
>>OLSEN: That's awesome.
I'm really glad that you were
able to make that connection.
>>Ruben: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: That's great.
>>Ruben: Me too, Kaedrich.
[CHUCKLES]
>>OLSEN: And it
doesn't stop here.
It's something that
you can take with you
for the rest of your life.
>>NOORY: Can anybody
practice automatic writing?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
And it's something
that I really recommend
everyone give it a shot.
It's very easy.
It's very powerful
and very insightful.
All it really is just sitting
down with paper and pencil,
clearing your mind,
if you can connect
with that sacred
energy, put yourself
into a sacred mind set.
And then really remember
what it's like, again,
that feeling is key.
The emotional sense of being
close with that person that you
loved, that you want to
connect with and communicate
with, and really feel
that they're with you--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>OLSEN: --and
closing that space.
And then write something
on the paper, a question
that you want answered.
At first, make it simple and
easy and silly because you want
to get used to the process.
And then just free
associate write.
Seriously, if you want to
do like, roses are red,
violets are blue, I don't
know if this is really
going to work.
What am I going to do?
But you know, I remember that
one time when we were together.
And then you just
kind of start writing
and let yourself write
whatever comes out.
One of my favorite
things that happens
with automatic writing
is, you're writing along
and you're writing
and you're writing,
and then all of a sudden the
hand will stop, scratch it out,
and it'll write down,
please don't write for me,
I know what I'm doing.
And it'll just
continue on writing.
It's a great way for anybody
to reconnect with a loved one.
Connect with higher
self is great.
Like, what does my higher
self want me to know?
And you just
free-associate write,
even if it's starting
off with gibberish,
and then all of a
sudden, your higher self
will start writing through and
give you answers through it.
>>NOORY: Noted author,
Whitley Strieber,
does automatic writing from
his wife, Ann, who passed away,
and it's remarkable for him.
He's come up with books--
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: --from
the spirit world.
>>OLSEN: Oh, there
are times where
I've sat down at a keyboard,
not sure what I want to write.
Something will come
out, next thing I know,
I've got like a good
chapter for a book,
or I've got some other
stuff written out that needs
to be published and dealt with.
A lot of the class ideas I
have that come up that I teach
start from an automatic
writing session.
Then I will test it with
some friends and some people
that I know that are
intuitive, and we'll make sure
that it works,
tweak it, and then
I'll bring it out to the public
as like, here's something
that really came through as
a powerful automatic writing
teaching.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich, does
any of this scare you?
>>OLSEN: It never really has.
When I was a kid,
you know, there's
been those couple of times
where something negative
has happened.
When I've worked
with other people who
have had some scary things
going on in their house,
and sure, they were scared, but
the first thing that I teach
everybody, when you think
that you're encountering
some potential negative entity,
like a fear-based entity
or some sort of a problem
entity, is laugh with it.
Because if this thing is trying
to tap into some fear energy
or try to generate some
negativity out of you,
it's because it's feeding
off of that energy.
And if you can just laugh or
you can get into a state of awe
about this entity, it
raises your vibration,
raises your energy level, it
poisons this thing so that it
can't mess with you anymore.
And so if I go into a home
where things are flying around,
a book is falling off
the shelf, they've
got the bad feeling
that goes in the room,
they got the cold spots, they've
got some sort of negativity,
I'll teach the person how to
raise their own energy so they
can take charge of the energetic
environment of their home.
>>NOORY: Makes a difference.
>>OLSEN: Right.
So that when they
encounter this thing,
they are now in charge
of the situation.
And what happens, most
of the time-- in fact,
I would say all of the time--
is that there may be some
sort of a negative entity
like a thought
form or a servitor
or some sort of a
negative entity,
but it's a secondary
infestation.
Meanwhile, there is really
a spirit in that house
or a nature spirit or something
that is actually benign,
something that really wants
to work with this person,
but because we have been so
trained that the paranormal is
negative, that this must
be a demonic entity,
that our own creative ability,
as a powerfully creative
person, will generate
this negative entity
or draw this negative entity.
Meanwhile, this benign spirit
is just as fearful and afraid
of this other entity.
So I'll teach the person
to get to another mindset,
to poison this negative
entity away, and then
come into a more
amicable communication
with a spirit that
really is in their house
so that they can peacefully
coexist with the paranormal
all around them.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich, do come
back on "Beyond Belief" again,
would you?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
Any time.
>>NOORY: Thank you.
It's fascinating.
>>OLSEN: Thank you.
>>NOORY: The spirit world--
it's an interesting way to tap
into something that we normally
don't, but I'm still going to
stay away from Ouija boards.
I'll communicate
a different way.
Thanks for watching.